Environment Variables
When opening a terminal window, a new
Bash process, which has its own
environment variables, is initialized.
These variables are a form of global
storage for various settings inherited by
any applications that are run during
that terminal session.
One of the most commonly-referenced
environment variables is PATH,
which is a colon-separated list of
directory paths that Bash will search
through whenever a command is run
without a full path.
We can view the contents of a given
environment variable with the
echo command followed by the
dollar sign character
and an environment variable name.
For example, let’s examine the contents
of the PATH environment variable:
Some other useful environment
variables include USER…
P.W.D….
and HOME…
which hold the values of the current
terminal user’s username,
present working directory,
and home directory respectively.
We can define an environment variable
with the export command.
For example, if we are scanning a target
and don’t want to type in the system’s
IP address repeatedly, we can quickly
assign it an environment variable
and use that instead:
The export command makes the variable
accessible to any subprocesses
we might spawn from our
current Bash instance.
If we set an environment variable
without export, it will only
be available in the current shell.
Let’s launch another instance of Bash
and try to display the variable again.
Since we defined our variable without
the export command,
we can’t access it in
the new Bash instance.
After exiting back to our original
Bash session
we have access to the variable again.
Now let’s see what happens when we use
export to define a variable.
Nothing has changed so far but
let’s see what happens when we
launch a new Bash instance.
This time, we can access the
variable from the new instance.
There are many other environment
variables defined by default
in Kali Linux.
We can view these by running e-n-v
at the command line:
Take some time to review and experiment
with the pre-defined environment
variables.